# Depolying 
 Cloud Computing is where software application, data storage and processing capacity are accessed over the internet.

 There are three ways for cloud computing: 
   - SaaS: Software as a service.
   - PaaS: Platform as a service.
   - IaaS : Infrastructure as service.


All of these allow users to run applications or store data online. However, each offers a different level of user flexibility and control.



## What is PaaS?
Specifically, PaaS allows users to create their own cloud applications using supplier specific tools and languages.

 PaaS provides an environment and a set of tools that allow users to create their new online applications.
 

## What services are there that can provide you with a platform for your code? And Why is it useful to be able to deploy your code to a cloud platform, rather than running it locally?


There are many devices that can help. For example, Google has a product called App Engine that allows useers to develop, run and maintain their own web applicstions on Google's Infrastructure. 


Microsoft also has a PaaS offering called "Azure" which allows users to develop and run windows applications in Microsoft applications in Microsoft's region of the Cloud.

Salesforce is also a big player on the past landscape with an offering called "force.com".

Both Google App Engine and force.com currently allow an application to be built and hosted for free.  

# -What is Heroku-
Heroku is a cloud platform that lets companies build, deliver, monitor and scale apps. It is a very fast way to go from idea to URL, bypassing a lot of problems.

# Other similarities to Heroku:
-Nanobox.io  
-engineyard.com  
-Google App Engine (https://cloud.google.com/appengine/)  
-clever-cloud.com  
-convox.com  
-openshift.com  
-cloud66.com  
-hasura.io  


What is deploying environments???

In software deploying, an environment or tier is a computer system on which a computer  program or software component is deployed and executed.

Environments may vary significantly in size: the development environment is typically an individual developer's workstation, while the production environment may be a network of many geographically distributed machines in data centers, or virtual machines in cloud computing. Code, data, and configuration may be deployed in parallel, and need not connect to the corresponding tier – for example, pre-production code might connect to a production database.

What’s “Variables for deployment environments”??
Deployment variables:
Variables later in the following list override the previous ones in case of repeating names:
global variables
release variables as defined below
user variables defined at environment level
the autogenerated variables in the following table:


https://scontent.fjrs2-1.fna.fbcdn.net/v/t34.0-12/24135647_1369661389811411_787660514_n.png?oh=1769ce83c54d78c4a6336289f10a3f08&oe=5A1E3751

Configuring variables for deployment environments
Deployment environment variables are configured as part of the Other settings section of the environment panel.
To configure an environment variable:
Open your deployment project and expand the relevant environment panel. In the Other settings section, click Variables:
Enter a valid key and value into the relevant fields in the Variables screen.
Click on Add to add the variable scheme







You can remove unwanted variables by clicking the relevant cross icon on the right of the Variables screen.
Click Back to deployment project to return.




Some summary:
Whenever deploying in an environment, we should consider few things; like every deploying environment could have some special variables to deal with 
we shouldn’t include our deploying variables in a public repositry 
What are Environment Modules?
Typically users initialize their environment when they log in by setting environment information for every application they will reference during the session. The Environment Modules package is a tool that simplify shell initialization and lets users easily modify their environment during the session with modulefiles.
Each modulefile contains the information needed to configure the shell for an application. Once the Modules package is initialized, the environment can be modified on a per-module basis using the module command which interprets modulefiles. Typically modulefiles instruct the module command to alter or set shell environment variables such as PATH, MANPATH, etc. modulefiles may be shared by many users on a system and users may have their own collection to supplement or replace the shared modulefiles.
Modules can be loaded and unloaded dynamically and atomically, in an clean fashion. All popular shells are supported, including bash, ksh, zsh, sh, csh, tcsh, fish, as well as some scripting languages such as perl, ruby, tcl and python.
Modules are useful in managing different versions of applications. Modules can also be bundled into metamodules that will load an entire suite of different applications.
Latest source release

Useful links:
https://travis-ci.org/ :
- u could look for “continuous integration” which is so useful 
https://confluence.atlassian.com/bamboo/linking-to-source-code-repositories-671089223.html 
https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables/ :
also in travis what so ever
http://modules.sourceforge.net/

